.TH DDB-DAEMON 1 "17 February 2018" "GLADSERV" "LOCAL USER COMMANDS"
.SH NAME
ddb-daemon \- device access over the network
.SH SYNOPSIS
.EX
\fBddb-daemon\fP [options]...
.EE
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B ddb-daemon
program expects to be connected to
.B ddb
via two pipes, one connected to standard input and one to standard output;
it can for example be used with the \fIpipe\fP action in a configuration file
(see \fBddb\fP(5)), or it could be set up to run from
.BR inetd (8)
or
.BR xinetd (8)
and used with the \fIconnect\fP action.
.LP
The program will receive details of the file to open etc from the
.B ddb
program it is connected to; therefore most options will be specified
to
.B ddb
itself rather than to
.B ddb-daemon
however the following options are available:
.LP
.TP 0.5i
.B \-h
Print an usage message with some of the information in this manual page;
then exit the program.
.TP 0.5i
.B \-k \fIDIRECTORY\fP
Replaces the default user configuration directory with \fIDIRECTORY\fP;
if this option is repeated, the program will search all the directories
specified (but not the default, which can be added again if desired
by specifying this option one more time). If the \fIDIRECTORY\fP is not
absolute it will be relative to $HOME. To completely remove the user
configuration directories specify a single \fB\-k\-\fP.
.TP 0.5i
.B \-K \fIDIRECTORY\fP
Replaces the default system configuration directory with \fIDIRECTORY\fP;
if this option is repeated, the program will search all the directories
specified (but not the default, which can be added again if desired
by specifying this option one more time). To completely remove the
system configuration directories specify a single \fB\-K\-\fP.
.TP 0.5i
.B \-l
Print the program's licence on standard output and exit.
.TP 0.5i
.B \-v
Print version number and exit.
.PP
.LP
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.B ddb-daemon
exits with a status of zero if there was no communication error
with
.B ddb
and the last command received was a "device close".
.LP
An exit status of 1 signals an error in the options provided or a
problem initialising the program (there will be a message explaining
what went wrong).
.LP
An exit status of 2 signals an error during processing, for example
an error setting up a "plugin" environment to communicate with
.B ddb
(the program will produce a suitable error message before exiting).
.LP
An exit status of 3 signals that processing was interrupted by a
communication error before seeing a "device close" command.
.LP
.SH ENVIRONMENT
When starting,
.B ddb-daemon
reads the following environment variables, if present:
.TP 0.5i
.I DDB_CONFIG
Location of default user configuration file, instead of $HOME/.ddb;
the \fB\-k\fP option will override this.
.TP 0.5i
.I DDB_SYSCONFIG
Location of default user configuration file, instead of /etc/ddb;
the \fB\-K\fP option will override this.
.TP 0.5i
.I DDB_MODPATH
Location of loadable modules (plugins), overriding compiled-in
defaults.
.PP
.SH FILES
.nf
$HOME/.ddb                   Default user configuration directory
/etc/ddb                     Default system configuration directory
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ddb (1),
.BR ddb (5)
.SH BUGS
None that we know of. If we do become aware of a bug, we'll work
to fix it.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2018 Claudio Calvelli <ddb@gladserv.com>
.LP
All rights reserved.
.LP
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
are met:
.TP 0.5i
1.
Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.TP 0.5i
2.
Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.TP 0.5i
3.
If the program is modified in any way, a line must be added to the
above copyright notice to state that such modification has occurred.
.LP
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND
ANY EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS
BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF
THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
