.TH DDB-MODULE 7 "17 February 2018" "GLADSERV" "Devices"
.SH NAME
ddb\-module \- device emulated by a library
.SH DESCRIPTION
A \fBmodule\fP device is simply a loadable library module which provides
all the functionality which \fBddb\fP expects to find in a device; this
provides a way to add new device types.
.LP
The library needs to provide a function to "open" the device, and optionally
another function to perform device actions. The synopsis for these two
functions is:
.LP
.nf
.BI "ddb_device_t * open(int " "nargs" ", const char * " "args" "[" "nargs" "]);"
.sp
.BI "int action(int " "nargs" ", const char * " "args" "[" "nargs" "], const char * " "A" );
.fi
.LP
To use a \fBmodule\fP device it is necessary to have a configuration file
describing how to call it: this is done via the "call" and "acall" actions,
where the arguments specified are passed in \fIargs\fP. For example,
given the following configuration.
.LP
.nf
match ro =^mydevice$ ^(.*)$ name=$1 mode=r
match rw =^mydevice$ ^(.*)$ name=$1 mode=w
match excl =^mydevice$ ^(.*)$ name=$1 mode=x
match act =^mydevice$ ^(.*)$ name=$1
load mymodule
call mymodule myopen $name $mode
acall mymodule myaction $name
.fi
.LP
Opening the device with type "mydevice" and name "/dev/name" for writing
will result in loading the shared library "mymodule.so" and using the
"myopen" function from that library as follows:
.LP
.nf
const char * args[2] = { "/dev/name", "w" };
ddb_device_t * device = myopen(2, args);
.fi
.LP
Similarly, trying to run the action "pause" on the same device will call:
.LP
.nf
const char * args[1] = { "/dev/name" };
int result = myaction(1, args, "pause");
.fi
.LP
After closing the device or completing the action, the program will unload
the module.
.LP
See
.BR ddb (5)
for full details on specifying configuration.
.LP
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
The
.B open
function must return a pointer to a valid device on success, and NULL
on error, setting errno.
.LP
The
.B action
function must return a nonnegative number on success and a negative one
on error, setting errno; if the action is not supported, return a negative
number but set errno to 0.
.LP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ddb (1),
.BR ddb (5),
.BR ddb-intro (7)
.SH BUGS
None that we know of. If we do become aware of a bug, we'll work
to fix it.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2018 Claudio Calvelli <ddb@gladserv.com>
.LP
All rights reserved.
.LP
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
are met:
.TP 0.5i
1.
Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.TP 0.5i
2.
Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.TP 0.5i
3.
If the program is modified in any way, a line must be added to the
above copyright notice to state that such modification has occurred.
.LP
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND
ANY EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS
BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF
THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
