.TH DDB-ERROR 7 "19 February 2018" "GLADSERV" "Devices"
.SH NAME
ddb\-error \- emulate device errors
.SH DESCRIPTION
A \fBddb\-error\fP device is an interface to access another device and add
random errors to it. The errors are added to read operations after the
data transfer by randomly changing "OK" results to errors, and to the write
operations before the data transfer by randomly returning an error instead
of doing the actual write.
.LP
To use this type of device, you must always specify the device type
(\fIerror\fP) as there is no autodetection. For the name, use the syntax
.LP
.EX
    \fIpercentage\fP:\fItype\fP:\fIname\fP
    \fIpercentage\fP:\fIname\fP
.EE
.LP
This will open the device with the name specified (and the type, if
provided, using autodetection if not) and adds an emulated error on
average \fIpercentage\fP times every 100 operations.
.LP
.SH ACTIONS
This type of device does not support any actions using
.BR ddb_action (3)
.LP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ddb (1),
.BR ddb_action (3),
.BR ddb-intro (7),
.BR ddb-intro (7)
.SH BUGS
None that we know of. If we do become aware of a bug, we'll work
to fix it.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2018 Claudio Calvelli <ddb@gladserv.com>
.LP
All rights reserved.
.LP
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
are met:
.TP 0.5i
1.
Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.TP 0.5i
2.
Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.TP 0.5i
3.
If the program is modified in any way, a line must be added to the
above copyright notice to state that such modification has occurred.
.LP
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND
ANY EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS
BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF
THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
