.TH DDB-LVM 7 "3 February 2018" "GLADSERV" "Devices"
.SH NAME
ddb\-lvm \- device access to LVM volumes
.SH DESCRIPTION
A \fBddb\-lvm\fP device is an interface to access LVM devices from \fBddb\fP.
The only difference between using this device type and direct access to the
block device is the ability to automatically take a snapshot before reading
a device, and to delete the snapshot after the copy; it is also possible to
automatically create a new volume of the correct size.
.LP
To use this type of device, use the syntax
.LP
.EX
    \fIvolume_group\fP/\fIvolume_name\fP
.EE
.LP
to \fBddb\fP, optionally specifying a type "lvm" if autodetection fails,
or to make sure to use LVM (when running \fBddb\fP from a script, it is
recommended to always specify a type).
.LP
When using this type of device as a source, it is also possible to automatically
take a snapshot, copy the data from the snapshot, and then remove the snapshot
at the end; to do this, use the syntax
.LP
.EX
    \fIvolume_group\fP/\fIvolume_name\fP:\fIsnapshot_size\fP
.EE
.LP
where \fIsnapshot_size\fP is a number followed by a unit ("M" for megabytes,
"G" for gigabytes, etc). Note that it is currently not possible to resume
a copy if a snapshot was created, as the snapshot will be deleted if the
copy stops. This will be addressed in a future version.
.LP
When using this device as a destination, the program can create a new volume
the same size of the source; to do this, specify a type \fIlvm\fP and
a valid \fIvolume_group\fP but use a \fIvolume_name\fP which does not yet
exist; the \fI\-x\fP option to \fBddb\fP will require to create a new volume
and will stop with an error if overwriting an existing one.
.LP
The
.BR ddb-info (1)
program provides generic information on any
.I device
known to
.B ddb
and will show the name of the snapshot (if one was created) in addition
to generic device information.
.LP
.SH ACTIONS
A LVM volume is just like a normal device and does not currently support
any actions using
.BR ddb_action (3)
however a future version will provide actions to manage snapshots.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ddb (1),
.BR ddb-info (1),
.BR ddb_action (3)
.BR ddb-intro (7)
.SH BUGS
None that we know of. If we do become aware of a bug, we'll work
to fix it.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2018 Claudio Calvelli <ddb@gladserv.com>
.LP
All rights reserved.
.LP
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
are met:
.TP 0.5i
1.
Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.TP 0.5i
2.
Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.TP 0.5i
3.
If the program is modified in any way, a line must be added to the
above copyright notice to state that such modification has occurred.
.LP
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND
ANY EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS
BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF
THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
