.TH DDB-INTRO 3 "3 February 2018" "GLADSERV" "Introduction"
.SH NAME
ddb \- distributed device backup (introduction to library)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.EX
#include <ddb.h>

ddb_device_t * dev = ddb_device_open("/dev/sda1", O_RDONLY);
if (ddb_device_read(dev, buffer, (off_t)0, (size_t)4096)) ... ;
ddb_device_close(dev);
.EE
.LP
Link with \fI\-lddb\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I ddb
library contains functions to access
.I ddb
devices in a uniform way and without knowledge of the low-level details of
a particular device; it also provides access to these low-level details if
required.
.LP
Programs request access to one or more devices with
.BR ddb_device_open (3)
or some variant of it, then perform the requested device access, and
finally call
.BR ddb_device_close (3)
to flush all pending writes (if necessary) and free any resources which
have been allocated by the library to access that device. Data access is
provided by a number of read and write functions, see
.BR ddb_device_read (3)
.LP
The
.BR ddb_device_info (3)
provides generic information about the device, in a variety of formats;
each device may provide more specific information using a different function
which is available for that type of device only.
.LP
Most of the operation of
.I ddb
relies on block lists, for example the list of blocks which still need to
be copied, or the list of blocks which could not be copied because of errors;
the library provides a set of functions to store such lists efficiently
in memory: see
.BR ddb_blocklist_new (3)
and related functions for information.
.LP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ddb (1),
.BR ddb_blocklist_new (3),
.BR ddb_device_info (3),
.BR ddb_device_open (3),
.BR ddb_device_read (3)
.SH BUGS
None that we know of. If we do become aware of a bug, we'll work
to fix it.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2018 Claudio Calvelli <ddb@gladserv.com>
.LP
All rights reserved.
.LP
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
are met:
.TP 0.5i
1.
Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.TP 0.5i
2.
Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.TP 0.5i
3.
If the program is modified in any way, a line must be added to the
above copyright notice to state that such modification has occurred.
.LP
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND
ANY EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS
BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF
THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
