.TH DDB-INTRO 7 "3 February 2018" "GLADSERV" "Introduction"
.SH NAME
ddb \- distributed device backup (introduction)
.SH DESCRIPTION
The purpose of the
.I ddb
suite is to efficiently copy data between devices, independently on their
location on the network.  It is also good for salvaging data from faulty
devices.
.LP
The concept of
.I device
is rather more general than what is understood by the operating system or
by utilities like
.BR dd (1)
in the sense that a
.I device
could mean a local device as known to the operating system, a remote device
as known to a different operating system running on a remote system, a
collection of devices joined together in some way, or finally a program
running somewhere and communicating with
.B ddb
using the documented API.
.LP
A \fIdevice\fP is identified by a \fItype\fP and a \fIname\fP; in some
cases, the \fItype\fP can be omitted, and \fBddb\fP guesses it (autodetection)
although when using \fBddb\fP from scripts, or using the API it is
recommended to always specify a \fItype\fP if known, to avoid the
possibility of autodetection making a wrong guess.
.LP
More specifically, a device can be one of:
.TP 1i
regular device
This is a device as the operating system knows it, normally specified as
a path starting with "/dev/". The type is normally autodetected but can
be specified as "device", for example to avoid creating a regular file in
"/dev" when trying to write to a device which does not exist.
.TP 1i
image
This is a regular file containing data from a device; if supported by the
operating system, it will be a sparse file; normally specified as the full
path to the file. The type will be normally autodetected, but can be
specified as "image", for example to refuse writing to a device instead.
.TP 1i
image with metadata
Similar to an image, but instead of using a sparse file it stores information
about which blocks are present in the file itself. The type is normally
autodetected for an existing file, but needs to be specified as "meta"
to create a new file; also, specifying the type for an existing file
will make sure that an "image" won't be used instead if the file does not
have a metadata header.  See
.BR ddb-meta (7)
for information on how to specify this type of device and the options available.
.TP 1i
remote
This is a device accessed using a generic interface and set up using a
configuration file; the transport can be a pipe to another program or a
TCP connection.  The type of each \fIremote\fP device is specified by the
configuration, which also specifies whether autodetection is permitted.  See
.BR ddb-remote (7)
for information about this device and
.BR ddb (5)
for information on how to set up this type of device.
.TP 1i
module
This is a device accessed by loading a shared library object and calling
a function within it; this is set up using a configuration file.  The type
of each \fImodule\fP device is specified by the configuration, which also
specifies whether autodetection is permitted.  See
.BR ddb-module (7)
for information about this device and
.BR ddb (5)
for information on how to set up this type of device.
.TP 1i
sequence
A sequence of images with metadata representing an initial full copy of a
device and a number of incremental backups; this is normally specified as
a path to the directory, and the program will read all images contained in
there. The \fItype\fP of a sequence device is "sequence", although using
a directory instead of a file will autodetect this type. See
.BR ddb-sequence (7)
for more information, and for a description of tools available to manage
this type of device.
.TP 1i
lvm
Similar to a plain block device, but with some extra knowledge of LVM,
for example to handle snapshots automatically. The \fItype\fP of this
device is "lvm", and it can be autodetected when the \fIname\fP is
a correct device name known to LVM. See
.BR ddb-lvm (7)
for more information.
.TP 1i
error
Opens another device and simulates random errors on it. For testing only.
See
.BR ddb-error (7)
for more information.
.LP
.SH EXAMPLES
The manual page for
.BR ddb (1)
provides a full description of the utility; in its simplest form, it accepts
two devices, a source and a destination, and copies data from one to the
other, so for example:
.LP
.EX
\fBddb\fP /dev/sda1 /var/backup/sda1
.EE
.LP
Creates a disk image of /dev/sda1, while
.LP
.EX
\fBddb\fP /dev/sda1 /var/backup/sda1/
.EE
.LP
Creates a full backup of /dev/sda1 as an image inside the directory
/var/backup/sda1 using a "sequence" \fItype\fP; if the directory does
not exist, it will be created, but the slash at the end of the name
is essential, otherwise the name will be treated as an image;
a second run of the program:
.LP
.EX
\fBddb\fP /dev/sda1 /var/backup/sda1/
.EE
.LP
will find the full backup in there and add a new image with the differences
between the device and the full backup, in other words, an incremental backup.
.LP
The above can specify a type to make sure that autodetection doesn't
guess wrongly:
.LP
.EX
\fBddb\fP \fI\-T\fP device \fI\-t\fP sequence /dev/sda1 /var/backup/sda1/
.EE
.LP
To restore from a backup:
.LP
.EX
\fBddb\fP /var/backup/sda1/ /dev/sda1
.EE
.LP
This will use the latest incremental backup; a special syntax (see
.BR ddb-sequence (7)
for information) allows to access an earlier backup, for example:
.LP
.EX
\fBddb\fP /var/backup/sda1/2017-12-01 /dev/sda1
.EE
.LP
Restores /dev/sda1 to the latest backup on or before December 1st 2017.
.LP
In the above examples, either the source or the destination can be remote,
by providing appropriate configuration; see
.BR ddb (5)
for example of using remote devices.
.LP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR dd (1),
.BR ddb (1),
.BR ddb (5),
.BR ddb-error (7),
.BR ddb-lvm (7),
.BR ddb-meta (7),
.BR ddb-module (7),
.BR ddb-remote (7),
.BR ddb-sequence (7)
.SH BUGS
None that we know of. If we do become aware of a bug, we'll work
to fix it.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2018 Claudio Calvelli <ddb@gladserv.com>
.LP
All rights reserved.
.LP
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
are met:
.TP 0.5i
1.
Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.TP 0.5i
2.
Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.TP 0.5i
3.
If the program is modified in any way, a line must be added to the
above copyright notice to state that such modification has occurred.
.LP
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND
ANY EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS
BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF
THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
