.TH DDB-REMOTE 7 "17 February 2018" "GLADSERV" "Devices"
.SH NAME
ddb\-remote \- remote device
.SH DESCRIPTION
A \fBremote\fP device is an external program which provides all the
functionality which \fBddb\fP expects to find in a device; this
provides a way to add new device types.
.LP
The program can listen on a TCP port for connections, or it can be
launched by \fBddb\fP when required; the protocol is identical, the
only difference is the transport: a network connection or a pipe
to the program's standard input and standard output.
.LP
To use a \fBremote\fP device it is necessary to have a configuration file
describing how to use it: this is done via the "connect" and "pipe" actions;
in either case, the configuration specifies the "real" device name and
type to be used. For example, the following configuration:
.LP
.nf
match any =^tcp$ ^([^:]*):([^:]*):(.*)$ host=$1 port=$2 name=$3
connect $host $port $name
.sp
match any =^ssh$ ^([^:]*):([^:]*):(.*)$ host=$1 port=$2 name=$3
pipe $name - ssh -p $port $host ddb-daemon
.fi
.LP
Opening the device with type "tcp" and name "remote:1234:/path"
will result in connecting to host "remote" port 1234 and requesting
access to device "/path" with type autodetection (type was not
specified in the configuration, and "tcp" is used to look up the
configuration only).
.LP
Opening the device with type "ssh" and name "remote:1234:/path"
will result in running the command:
.LP
.nf
ssh -p 1234 remote ddb-daemon
.fi
.LP
And requesting the same device "/path" with type autodetection.
.LP
See
.BR ddb (5)
for full details on specifying configuration.
.LP
.SH PROTOCOL
The protocol used to communicate to a remote device is independent
on the actual transport (network, pipe) and the way it has been set
up. This is currently undocumented.
.LP
.SH "HELPER LIBRARY"
See
.BR ddb_plugin_init (3)
for a library which can be used to write a "remote" device.
.LP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ddb (1),
.BR ddb-daemon (1),
.BR ddb_plugin_init (3),
.BR ddb (5)
.SH BUGS
None that we know of. If we do become aware of a bug, we'll work
to fix it.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2018 Claudio Calvelli <ddb@gladserv.com>
.LP
All rights reserved.
.LP
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
are met:
.TP 0.5i
1.
Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.TP 0.5i
2.
Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.TP 0.5i
3.
If the program is modified in any way, a line must be added to the
above copyright notice to state that such modification has occurred.
.LP
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND
ANY EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS
BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF
THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
