.TH DDB-META 7 "17 February 2018" "GLADSERV" "Devices"
.SH NAME
ddb\-meta \- images with metadata
.SH DESCRIPTION
A \fBmeta\fP device is an image of a device containing some metadata
to indicate which blocks are present, and where they are found in the file;
the image uses slightly more space than an sparse image but on the other hand
it has the advantage that the program can quickly find out which blocks are
present. The \fBmeta\fP device is central to the \fBsequence\fP device as
described in
.BR ddb-sequence (7)
where each incremental backup is stored using a \fBmeta\fP device.
.LP
To use this type of device, use the normal file name to \fBddb\fP, specifying
a type "meta" when creating it (otherwise it will be created as a sparse image
instead). When opening an existing device, the type will be autodetected.
.LP
In most respects, this device behaves like a sparse image and can be used
whenever a sparse image can be.
.LP
The
.BR ddb-info (1)
program provides generic information on any
.I device
known to
.B ddb
and will show the number of blocks present in a \fBmeta\fP device as well
as the total disk space used.
.LP
.SH ACTIONS
A \fBmeta\fP device does not currently support any actions using
.BR ddb_action (3)
however a future version may provide actions to manage the device.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ddb (1),
.BR ddb-info (1),
.BR ddb_action (3)
.BR ddb-intro (7)
.SH BUGS
None that we know of. If we do become aware of a bug, we'll work
to fix it.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2018 Claudio Calvelli <ddb@gladserv.com>
.LP
All rights reserved.
.LP
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
are met:
.TP 0.5i
1.
Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.TP 0.5i
2.
Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.TP 0.5i
3.
If the program is modified in any way, a line must be added to the
above copyright notice to state that such modification has occurred.
.LP
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND
ANY EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS
BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF
THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
