.TH DDB-SEQUENCE 7 "3 February 2018" "GLADSERV" "Devices"
.SH NAME
ddb\-sequence \- incremental device images
.SH DESCRIPTION
A \fBddb\-sequence\fP is a directory with a special structure, containing
full and incremental images of a device as well as some extra information
for use by backup programs.
.LP
To use this type of device as a destination, just provide a directory name
to \fBddb\fP; if the directory is empty, the program will automatically set
up the required structure and take an initial full device image; if the
directory is already set up, the program will take an incremental image
containing just the differences between the contents of the device at the
time of the last run, and the current contents. If the special file name
\fIlast\fP is used inside this directory, this will overwrite the last
incremental image, or if none is present, the full image: this can be
used to continue a copy which was interrupted.
.LP
To use this type of device as a source, provide the directory name optionally
followed by a timestamp; this indicates the last backup taken at or before the
time specified (or the last backup found, if no timestamp); a timestamp has
the form:
.LP
.EX
    \fByear\fP\-\fBmonth\fP\-\fBday\fP:\fBhour\fP:\fBminute\fP:\fBsecond\fP
.EE
.LP
which can be truncated after any element to mean "the end of", so for example:
.LP
.EX
    \fBddb\fP /var/backup/sda1/2017-12-07:17 /dev/sda1
.EE
.LP
would restore from the last backup before 6pm on December 7, 2017 (the
specification ends with the hour, 17, and that means "up to the end of 5pm");
.LP
.EX
    \fBddb\fP /var/backup/sda1/2017-12-07 /dev/sda1
.EE
.LP
would restore from the last backup taken on December 7th, or if no backup
was taken on that date the most recent before then; and
.LP
.EX
    \fBddb\fP /var/backup/sda1/2016 /dev/sda1
.EE
.LP
would find the last backup of year 2016 (assuming at least one backup was
taken during the year, if not it'll find the most recent backup from a
previous year).
.LP
It is possible to specify an explicit image type to \fBddb\fP using the
\fI\-t\fP option (for a destination) or \fI\-T\fP (for a source); in
this case, the type must be \fBsequence\fP. This is only necessary if
for some reason autodetecting fails; however when calling \fBddb\fP
from a script or some automated task it's always best to specify all
types to disable autodetection.
.LP
The
.BR ddb-info (1)
program provides generic information on any
.I device
known to
.B ddb
and will show the number of backups present in a sequence, and their dates;
more detailed information, as well as options to manage a sequence, are
provided by
.BR ddb-sequence (1)
which can, for example, collapse together consecutive backups into a single
image to keep the directory from growing in size.
.LP
.SH ACTIONS
A sequence supports the following actions using
.BR ddb_action(3)
.TP 0.5i
checksum
Create or recreate a checksum cache for the sequence; this will
be used when reading blocks with \fIDDB_READ_CHECKSUM\fP and
will be updated by writes; this action is the same as running
.BR ddb-sequence (1)
with the \fI\-c\fP option.
.TP 0.5i
join
Updates the full backup with the oldest incremental image, and
if successful deletes that incremental image; this is the same
as running
.BR ddb-sequence (1)
with the \fI\-j\fP option.
.PP
.LP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ddb (1),
.BR ddb-info (1),
.BR ddb-sequence (1),
.BR ddb_action (3),
.BR ddb-intro (7)
.SH BUGS
None that we know of. If we do become aware of a bug, we'll work
to fix it.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2018 Claudio Calvelli <ddb@gladserv.com>
.LP
All rights reserved.
.LP
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
are met:
.TP 0.5i
1.
Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.TP 0.5i
2.
Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.TP 0.5i
3.
If the program is modified in any way, a line must be added to the
above copyright notice to state that such modification has occurred.
.LP
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND
ANY EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS
BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF
THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
