.TH DDB_DEVICE_OPEN 3 "3 February 2018" "GLADSERV" "Device access"
.SH NAME
ddb_device_open, ddb_device_close \- distributed device backup device access
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <stdio.h>
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.B #include <sys/stat.h>
.B #include <ddb.h>
.sp
.BI "int ddb_device_configuration(int " "flags" ", const char * " "path" );
.sp
.BI "ddb_device_t * ddb_device_open(const char * " "name" ,
.BI "               const char * " "type" ", size_t " "block_size" ,
.BI "               int " "flags" ", off_t " "total_size" );
.sp
.BI "ddb_device_t * ddb_device_open_multi(size_t " "extra" ", int " "ndevs" ,
.BI "               ddb_device_t * " "devs" "[" "ndevs" "], int " "flags" );
.sp
.BI "int ddb_device_flush(ddb_device_t * " "dev" );
.sp
.BI "int ddb_device_close(ddb_device_t * " "dev" );
.fi
.LP
Link with \fI\-lddb\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR ddb_device_open()
function uses the device
.I name
provided to select an appropriate low-level set of functions to access
a device, and then tries to open the device and returns a pointer for
use in subsequent device access functions; the
.I flags
argument has the same meaning as for the
.BR open(2)
call, and controls the type of access required, except that a new
device will not be created by this call. The device will be
considered as made up of blocks, each of size
.I block_size
and all data transfer operations will be in units of one block. If
the device already exists and provides block size information, this
argument can be provided as 0 to accept the existing size, or as a
nonzero value to check for block size consistency. When creating a
new device (\fIflags\fP includes \fBO_CREAT\fP) the caller must
specify a non-zero \fItotal_size\fP (amount of data which will be
stored on the device) and can specify a non NULL \fItype\fP to
indicate the desired type to create (NULL to accept defaults);
when opening an existing device these arguments can be specified
to check for consisytency, or omitted (\fItotal_size\fP 0 and
\fItype\fP NULL) to accept what is found in the device.
.LP
The program uses a set of configuration files to parse a device name;
there is a compiled-in list, and the
.BR ddb_device_configuration()
function can be used to add to this list, or even to remove
compiled-in defaults. If the
.I path
argument is not null, it will be added to the list selected by the
.I flags
parameter, which can be one of:
.TP
DDB_CONFIG_SYSTEM
add \fIpath\fP to the list of system configuration directories.
.TP
DDB_CONFIG_USER
add \fIpath\fP to the list of user configuration directories.
.PP
Additionally, flags can be bitwise or-ed with these value;
currently there is only one flag:
.TP
DDB_CONFIG_CLEAR
clear the list before adding \fIpath\fP. This removes compiled-in defaults
as well as any other paths added by previous calls. If \fIpath\fP is null,
leaves the list empty.
.LP
The
.BR ddb_device_close()
function completes any pending I/O operations, then deallocates any
structures which have been allocated during device access and closes
any underlying file descriptors; the
.I dev
argument will contain invalid data after this call.
.LP
The
.BR ddb_device_flush()
function completes any pending I/O operations, but leaves the device
open for further operations.
.LP
The
.BR ddb_device_open_multi()
function opens a more complex device, referring to
.I ndevs
devices which have already been opened by the caller and passed in the
.I devs
array; the underlying devices and the contents of the
.I devs
array become invalid after a successful call to this function, and the
caller must not access them directly. The memory allocated includes
.I extra
bytes which will can be used by the caller. Some devices
will convert a call to
.BR ddb_device_open()
to an internal call to
.BR ddb_device_open_multi()
as appropriate.
.LP
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion
.BR ddb_device_open()
and
.BR ddb_device_open_multi()
return a pointer to a device structure, otherwise NULL is returned and
.I errno
is set appropriately.
.LP
The
.BR ddb_device_flush(),
.BR ddb_device_close()
and
.BR ddb_device_configuration()
functions return 0 on success and -1 on error, in which case they set
.I errno
to indicate what went wrong.
.LP
.SH ERRORS
In addition to the errors produced by
.BR open(2)
and
.BR malloc(3),
the
.BR ddb_device_open()
and
.BR ddb_device_open_multi()
can also produce:
.TP
.B EINVAL
The
.I name
or
.I type
argument cannot be parsed to determine a low-level device type, or
the
.I blocks_size
argument is invalid (0 when the block size cannot be determined from the
device, or nonzero but incompatible with the device).
.TP
.B EBADF
One of the elements of
.I devs
was not a valid device, or the
.I flags
argument was incompatible between the underlying devices.
.PP
.LP
The
.BR ddb_device_configuration()
function can return any of the errors produced by
.BR malloc().
.LP
The
.BR ddb_device_close()
and
.BR ddb_device_flush()
functions can return any of the errors produced by
.BR write(2)
and
.BR close(2)
.LP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ddb (1),
.BR ddb (5),
.BR ddb-intro (3),
.BR ddb_device_read (3),
.BR ddb-intro (7),
.BR ddb-image-metadata (7),
.BR ddb-lvm (7),
.BR ddb-pipe (7),
.BR ddb-sequence (7)
.SH BUGS
None that we know of. If we do become aware of a bug, we'll work
to fix it.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2018 Claudio Calvelli <ddb@gladserv.com>
.LP
All rights reserved.
.LP
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
are met:
.TP 0.5i
1.
Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.TP 0.5i
2.
Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.TP 0.5i
3.
If the program is modified in any way, a line must be added to the
above copyright notice to state that such modification has occurred.
.LP
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND
ANY EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS
BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF
THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
