.TH DDB_PLUGIN 3 "16 February 2018" "GLADSERV" "Run as a ddb plugin"
.SH NAME
ddb_plugin_init, ddb_plugin_run, ddb_plugin_exit \- Run as a ddb plugin
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <stdio.h>
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.B #include <sys/stat.h>
.B #include <ddb.h>
.sp
.BI "ddb_plugin_t * ddb_plugin_init(FILE * " "F_in" ", FILE * " "F_out" );
.sp
.BI "int ddb_plugin_run(ddb_plugin_t * " "pi" );
.sp
.BI "void ddb_plugin_exit(ddb_plugin_t * " "pi" );
.fi
.LP
Link with \fI\-lddb\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
These functions permit to create a plugin for
.BR ddb
by taking care of all the internals of the communication.
.LP
The
.BR ddb_plugin_init()
function takes two files, the first one,
.I F_in
provides input from
.BR ddb
to the plugin. and the second one,
.I F_out
provides output from the plugin to
.BR ddb.
The function will receive an initial communication with information
about a device type and name, and uses
.BR ddb_device_open()
to open it; this device is usually local to the system running the
plugin, but this is not required. The caller may set up an
environment in which the device actually opened could be anything
at all by specifying special configuration directories.
.LP
The
.BR ddb_plugin_run()
receives a single device access request (corresponding to a call
to one of the
.BR ddb_device_*()
functions) and processes it. The caller needs to call this
repeatedly until it returns 0 to indicate that the other end
has called
.BR ddb_device_close()
or a negative number to indicate a communication error.
.LP
The
.BR ddb_plugin_exit()
needs to be called at end of processing to deallocate
any resources allocated by
.BR ddb_plugin_init()
and to close the device; this function does not close the files
passed to that function, which are the responsibility of the caller.
.LP
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
The 
.BR ddb_plugin_init()
function returns a pointer to an opaque structure on success,
or NULL on error, setting
.I errno
to some appropriate value.
.LP
The
.BR ddb_plugin_run()
function returns zero to indicate end of processing, a positive
value to indicate other success conditions, and a negative value
on error, setting
.I errno
to an appropriate value.
.LP
.SH ERRORS
These function can return any errors which can be produced as
a result of network communications, as well as any errors which
can be produced by accessing the device. In addition, the
following errors can be returned:
.TP 0.5i
EINVAL
Invalid data was received from the remote end.
.TP 0.5i
ENOSYS
Some required operation is not supported by the device.
.PP
.LP
.SH EXAMPLE
The sources for the
.BR ddb-daemon (1)
program provide a short example of using these functions.
.LP
.SH NOTES
These functions are not re-entrant and must not be called from
signal handlers.
.LP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ddb (1),
.BR ddb-daemon (1),
.BR ddb_device_open (3),
.BR ddb-intro (7)
.SH BUGS
None that we know of. If we do become aware of a bug, we'll work
to fix it.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2018 Claudio Calvelli <ddb@gladserv.com>
.LP
All rights reserved.
.LP
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
are met:
.TP 0.5i
1.
Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.TP 0.5i
2.
Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.TP 0.5i
3.
If the program is modified in any way, a line must be added to the
above copyright notice to state that such modification has occurred.
.LP
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND
ANY EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS
BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF
THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
