.TH DDB_ACTION 3 "1 February 2018" "GLADSERV" "Device-specific action"
.SH NAME
ddb_action \- device-specific action
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <stdio.h>
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.B #include <sys/stat.h>
.B #include <ddb.h>
.sp
.BI "int ddb_action(const char * " "name" ", const char * " "type" ,
.BI "               const char * " "action" ", const char * " "aux_name" ,
.BI "               const char * " "aux_type" " int " "freq" ,
.BI "               void (* " "report" ")(const char *), void * " "arg" );
.fi
.LP
Link with \fI\-lddb\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR ddb_action()
function performs a special action on a device; these are actions
which would not work on all devices, and may require opeing the
device in a special way; the
.I name
argument indicates the device name, and the
.I type
argument the device type; these have the same values as provided to
.BR ddb_device_open(3)
except that
.I type
cannot be NULL (no autodetection). The
.I action
argument describes the action to be performed: see the documentation
for a specific device to see what actions are supported, if any.
Some action require a second device to be specified, and this can
be provided as
.I aux_name
and
.I aux_type
.LP
If
.I report
is not NULL and the action takes some time to run, it will be called
every
.I freq
seconds with a progress report.
.LP
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
The 
.BR ddb_action()
function returns 0 on success, -1 on error, in which case it sets
.I errno
to some appropriate value.
.LP
.SH ERRORS
The
.BR ddb_action()
function can produce the same errors as the action actually
performed, and additionally produce
.TP 0.5i
EINVAL
The \fItype\fP argument is null or not recognised
.TP 0.5i
ENOENT
The \fIaction\fP specified is not supported.
.PP
.LP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ddb (1),
.BR ddb_device_open (3),
.BR ddb-intro (7)
.SH BUGS
None that we know of. If we do become aware of a bug, we'll work
to fix it.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2018 Claudio Calvelli <ddb@gladserv.com>
.LP
All rights reserved.
.LP
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
are met:
.TP 0.5i
1.
Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.TP 0.5i
2.
Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.TP 0.5i
3.
If the program is modified in any way, a line must be added to the
above copyright notice to state that such modification has occurred.
.LP
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND
ANY EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS
BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF
THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
