.TH DDB_DEVICE_INFO 3 "3 February 2018" "GLADSERV" "Device information"
.SH NAME
ddb_device_info, ddb_device_blocks \- distributed device backup device information
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <stdio.h>
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.B #include <sys/stat.h>
.B #include <ddb.h>
.sp
.BI "void ddb_device_info(ddb_device_t * " "dev" ", ddb_device_info_t * " "info" );
.sp
.BI "int ddb_device_info_print(ddb_device_t * " "dev" ", int " "level" ,
.BI "                          int (*" "func" ")(int, const char *, void *),
.BI "                          void * " "arg" ", int " "verbose" );
.sp
.BI "int ddb_device_has_block(ddb_device_t * " "dev" ", off_t " "block" );
.sp
.BI "ddb_blocklist_t * ddb_device_has_blocks(ddb_device_t * " "dev" ,
.BI "                          const ddb_blocklist_t * " "blocks" );
.sp
.BI "ddb_blocklist_t * ddb_device_blocks(ddb_device_t * " "dev" );
.sp
.BI "ddb_blocklist_t * ddb_device_copy_blocks(ddb_device_t * " "dev" );
.sp
.BI "int ddb_device_block_iterate(ddb_device_t * " "dev" ",
.BI "                          int (*" "func" ")(off_t, off_t, void *),
.BI "                          void * " "arg" );
.fi
.LP
Link with \fI\-lddb\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR ddb_device_info()
function fills the
.I info
argument with information about the device
.I dev.
The
.I ddb_device_info_t
structure contains at least the following fields:
.LP
.nf
typedef struct ddb_device_info_s {
    const char    * name;
    int           flags; /* same as open() etc */
    size_t        block_size;
    off_t         num_blocks;
    off_t         total_size;
    off_t         blocks_present;
    time_t        mtime;
    int           multi_device;
    ddb_device_t  **devs;
} ddb_device_info_t;
.fi
.LP
The \fIblock_size\fP, \fInum_blocks\fP and \fItotal_size\fP fields describe
the device's size and blocks;
the \fImtime\fP field contains the time of data change, although this information
could be inaccurate for some devices (in particular, block devices do not provide
this information; however devices such as incremental image backups always
provide a valid timestamp in this field);
the \fImulti_device\fP argument is zero for
a simple device, for a device "containing" other devices it is the number of
such "inner" devices in which case the list of devices will be stored in
\fIdevs\fP, which points to a per-device static buffer. See
.BR ddb-intro (7)
for information about devices.
.LP
The
.BR ddb_device_info_print()
function produces a printable description of a device and its sub-devices
by calling \fIfunc\fP repeatedly; each call will correspond to a line of
output, and will be called as:
.LP
.nf
.BI "    func(" "level" ", " "line" ", " "arg");
.fi
.LP
Where \fIlevel\fP is initially the value provided as argument to
.BR ddb_device_info_print()
but is increased when providing information about sub-devices; the function
can use this value to indent the output, for example; the \fIarg\fP argument
is always the value passed by the caller, and \fIline\fP is the next line in
the printable description. The return value from \fIfunc\fP is expected to be
nonnegative; a negative return aborts the processing. The \fIverbose\fP
argument controls the level of details provided.
.LP
The
.BR ddb_device_has_block()
function determines whether the block number \fIblock\fP is present in the
device \fIdev\fP; for block devices and raw images this is always true as
long as the block is not past the physical end of the device; for other types
of devices, a block may be absent, for example in an incremental backup image
most blocks would be absent, meaning that a previous backup has them.
.LP
The
.BR ddb_device_has_blocks()
function is equivalent to calling
.BR ddb_device_has_block()
once for each element of
.I blocks
and producing a list of all blocks present in the device; this function could
be more efficient than a number of calls to
.BR ddb_device_has_block()
for some types of devices. The caller is responsible for freeing the result
using
.BR ddb_blocklist_free().
.LP
The
.BR ddb_device_blocks()
function produces a block list with all the blocks present in the device.
The caller is responsible for freeing the result using
.BR ddb_blocklist_free().
.LP
The
.BR ddb_device_copy_blocks()
function returns the blocks which must be copied from the device; for most
devices, this is all blocks it could store, whether actually present or not,
as missing blocks need to be copied as zeros; however for some devices
this could be a different list; for example, when reading a LVM snapshot
to determine what blocks have changed, the
.BR ddb_device_copy_blocks()
function returns the same list as
.BR ddb_device_blocks()
to indicate that only the blocks in the snapshot need to be copied.
.LP
The
.BR ddb_device_block_iterate()
calls \fIfunc\fP for each range of consecutive blocks present in the device:
.LP
.nf
.BI "    func(" "start" ", " "end" ", " "arg");
.fi
.LP
Indicating that the blocks numbered from \fIstart\fP to \fIend\fP inclusive
are present; for a device which contains "all blocks" this would be a single
call:
.LP
.nf
    \fBfunc(\fP0, \fInum_blocks\fP - 1, \fIarg\fP);
.fi
.LP
The \fIarg\fP argument is as provided by the caller.  The function \fIfunc\fP
is expected to be nonnegative; a negative return aborts the processing.
.LP
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
The 
.BR ddb_device_info(),
function doesn't return any value, but fills the
.I info
argument.
.LP
The
.BR ddb_device_info_print()
and
.BR ddb_device_block_iterate()
functions return 0 on success; if the processing is aborted because \fIfunc\fP
returned a negative value, this value is returned.
.LP
The
.BR ddb_device_has_block()
function returns 1 if the device has the block, 0 if it does not have it, and
-1 if there was an error determining this information, in which case it sets
.I errno
.LP
The
.BR ddb_device_has_blocks()
function returns the sublist of
.I blocks
containing all blocks present in the device, or NULL on error, in which
case it sets
.I errno
.LP
The
.BR ddb_device_blocks()
and
.BR ddb_device_copy_blocks()
functions return a list on success, or NULL on error, in which case they set
.I errno
as appropriate.
.SH ERRORS
The
.BR ddb_device_has_block()
functions can produce any of the errors produced by
.BR read(2)
and, for some devices, any of the errors produced by
.BR send(2)
and
.BR recv(2)
.LP
The
.BR ddb_device_has_blocks()
function can produce all the errors produced by
.BR ddb_device_has_block()
as well as
.BR ddb_blocklist_new (3)
and
.BR ddb_blocklist_add (3)
.LP
The
.BR ddb_device_blocks()
and
.BR ddb_device_copy_blocks()
function can produce any of the errors produced by
.BR ddb_blocklist_new (3)
and
.BR ddb_blocklist_add (3)
and additionally any errors which can result from accessing the device
to determine which blocks are present.
.LP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ddb (1),
.BR ddb-intro (3),
.BR ddb_device_open (3),
.BR ddb_blocklist_new (3),
.BR ddb-intro (7)
.SH BUGS
None that we know of. If we do become aware of a bug, we'll work
to fix it.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2018 Claudio Calvelli <ddb@gladserv.com>
.LP
All rights reserved.
.LP
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
are met:
.TP 0.5i
1.
Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.TP 0.5i
2.
Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.TP 0.5i
3.
If the program is modified in any way, a line must be added to the
above copyright notice to state that such modification has occurred.
.LP
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND
ANY EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS
BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF
THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
