.TH DDB_BLOCKLIST 3 "3 February 2018" "GLADSERV" "Blobk lists"
.SH NAME
ddb_blocklist_new, ddb_blocklist_add, ddb_blocklist_sub, ddb_blocklist_union, ddb_blocklist_intersect, ddb_blocklist_count, ddb_blocklist_has, ddb_blocklist_iterate, ddb_blocklist_free \- operations on lists of blocks
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <stdio.h>
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.B #include <sys/stat.h>
.B #include <ddb.h>
.sp
.BI "ddb_blocklist_t * ddb_blocklist_new(void);"
.sp
.BI "ddb_blocklist_t * ddb_blocklist_load(FILE * " "F" );
.sp
.BI "ddb_blocklist_t * ddb_blocklist_read(FILE * " "F" );
.sp
.BI "int ddb_blocklist_add(ddb_blocklist_t * " "ls" ,
.BI "                      off_t " "start" ", off_t " "end" );
.sp
.BI "ddb_blocklist_t * ddb_blocklist_sub(const ddb_blocklist_t * " "ls" ,
.BI "                      off_t " "start" ", off_t " "end" );
.sp
.BI "ddb_blocklist_t * ddb_blocklist_union(int " "nls" ,
.BI "                      const ddb_blocklist_t * " "ls" "[" "nls" "] );
.sp
.BI "ddb_blocklist_t * ddb_blocklist_intersect(int " "nls" ,
.BI "                      const ddb_blocklist_t * " "ls" "[" "nls" "] );
.sp
.BI "int ddb_blocklist_save(const ddb_blocklist_t * " "ls" ", FILE * " "F" );
.sp
.BI "int ddb_blocklist_print(const ddb_blocklist_t * " "ls" ", FILE * " "F" );
.sp
.BI "off_t ddb_blocklist_count(const ddb_blocklist_t * " "ls" );
.sp
.BI "int ddb_blocklist_has(const ddb_blocklist_t * " "ls" ",
.BI "                      off_t " "block" );
.sp
.BI "int ddb_blocklist_iterate(const ddb_blocklist_t * " "ls" ,
.BI "                      int (*" "func" ")(off_t, off_t, void *),
.BI "                      void * " "arg" );
.sp
.BI "void ddb_blocklist_free(ddb_blocklist_t * " "ls" );
.fi
.LP
Link with \fI\-lddb\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
These function manages lists of blocks for
.B ddb.
These lists can be considered as ordered sequences of integers large
enough to hold block numbers. The implementation may use different
optimisation techniques depending on the actual contents of the list.
.LP
.BR ddb_blocklist_new ()
creates a new empty list.
.LP
.BR ddb_blocklist_load ()
reads a blocklist from a file and returns it; the file position must be
at the start of the list when calling the function, and it will be
moved to just after the end of the list; the function expects to find
the binary format produced by
.BR ddb_blocklist_save ()
.LP
.BR ddb_blocklist_read ()
reads a blocklist from a file and returns it; the file position must be
at the start of the list when calling the function, and it will be left
at end of file; the function expects to find the text format produced by
.BR ddb_blocklist_print ()
.LP
.BR ddb_blocklist_add ()
adds a range of blocks to the list, including both \fIstart\fP and \fIend\fP
and all blocks in between.
.LP
.BR ddb_blocklist_sub ()
creates a new list containing all the blocks in the original list which are
between \fIstart\fP and \fIend\fP (inclusive).
.LP
.BR ddb_blocklist_union ()
creates a new list containing all blocks which are contained in at least
one of the lists passed as arguments.
.LP
.BR ddb_blocklist_intersect ()
creates a new list containing all blocks which are contained in each
one of the lists passed as arguments.
.LP
.BR ddb_blocklist_save ()
and
.BR ddb_blocklist_print ()
write a blocklist to a file and the file position must be where the
blocklist needs to go when calling the function, and it will be
moved to just after the end of the list; the difference is that
.BR ddb_blocklist_save ()
uses a binary format, while
.BR ddb_blocklist_print ()
uses a text format.
.LP
.BR ddb_blocklist_count ()
counts the total number of blocks in a list (for example, if one has called
.BR ddb_blocklist_add()
once on a new list, the number of blocks will be \fIend\fP-\fIstart\fP+1).
.LP
.BR ddb_blocklist_has ()
checks if a list contain a particular block, and returns 1 if it does,
0 if it does not.
.LP
The
.BR ddb_blocklist_iterate()
calls \fIfunc\fP for each range of consecutive blocks present in the list:
.LP
.nf
.BI "    func(" "start" ", " "end" ", " "arg");
.fi
.LP
Indicating that the blocks numbered from \fIstart\fP to \fIend\fP inclusive
are present; for a list which contains "all blocks" this would be a single
call:
.LP
.nf
    \fBfunc(\fP0, \fIlast_block\fP, \fIarg\fP);
.fi
.LP
The \fIarg\fP argument is as provided by the caller.  The function \fIfunc\fP
is expected to be nonnegative; a negative return aborts the processing.
.LP
The
.BR ddb_blocklist_free()
deallocates all resources which have been allocated for the list; the caller
must not use the list after this call.
.LP
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
The
.BR ddb_blocklist_new(),
.BR ddb_blocklist_load(),
.BR ddb_blocklist_read(),
.BR ddb_blocklist_sub(),
.BR ddb_blocklist_union()
and
.BR ddb_blocklist_intersect()
functions return a pointer to a new blocklist on success, or NULL on error,
in which case they set
.I errno
to an approppriate value.
.LP
The
.BR ddb_blocklist_add(),
.BR ddb_blocklist_save()
and
.BR ddb_blocklist_print()
functions return 0 on success and -1 on error, setting
.I errno
to an appropriate value.
.LP
The
.BR ddb_blocklist_count()
returns the total number of blocks in the list.
.LP
.BR ddb_blocklist_has()
returns 1 if the list contains the block specified, 0 if it doesn't.
.LP
The
.BR ddb_blocklist_iterate()
functions return 0 on success; if the processing is aborted because \fIfunc\fP
returned a negative value, this value is returned.
.LP
The
.BR ddb_blocklist_free()
does not return a value.
.SH ERRORS
The functions
.BR ddb_blocklist_new(),
.BR ddb_blocklist_add(),
.BR ddb_blocklist_sub(),
.BR ddb_blocklist_union()
and
.BR ddb_blocklist_intersect()
can return any of the errors returned by
.BR malloc(3).
.LP
The functions
.BR ddb_blocklist_load()
and
.BR ddb_blocklist_read()
can return any of the errors returned by
.BR malloc (3)
in addition to any of the errors returned by
.BR fread (3).
.LP
The functions
.BR ddb_blocklist_save()
and
.BR ddb_blocklist_print()
can return any of the errors returned by
.BR fwrite (3).
.LP
The function
.BR ddb_blocklist_iterate()
can return any of the errors returned by \fIfunc\fP.
.LP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ddb (1),
.BR ddb-intro (3)
.SH BUGS
None that we know of. If we do become aware of a bug, we'll work
to fix it.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2018 Claudio Calvelli <ddb@gladserv.com>
.LP
All rights reserved.
.LP
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
are met:
.TP 0.5i
1.
Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.TP 0.5i
2.
Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.TP 0.5i
3.
If the program is modified in any way, a line must be added to the
above copyright notice to state that such modification has occurred.
.LP
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND
ANY EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS
BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF
THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
