.TH DDB_DEVICE_READ 3 "3 February 2018" "GLADSERV" "Device access"
.SH NAME
ddb_device_read, ddb_device_write \- distributed device backup device access
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <stdio.h>
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.B #include <sys/stat.h>
.B #include <ddb.h>
.sp
.BI "int ddb_device_read(ddb_device_t * " "dev" ", off_t " "block" ,
.BI "                      void * " "buffer" ", int " "flags" );
.sp
.BI "int ddb_device_read_multi(ddb_device_t * " "dev" ", int " "nblocks" ,
.BI "                      ddb_block_t * " "blocks" "[" "nblocks" "] ", int " "flags" );
.sp
.BI "int ddb_device_write(ddb_device_t * " "dev" ", off_t " "block" ,
.BI "                      const void * " "buffer" );
.sp
.BI "int ddb_device_write_multi(ddb_device_t * " "dev" ", int " "nblocks" ,
.BI "                      ddb_block_t * " "blocks" "[" "nblocks" "] " );
.fi
.LP
Link with \fI\-lddb\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR ddb_device_read()
function reads a block of data (of length specified by the device's
\fI block_size\fP but see NOTES below), starting at block offset
.I block
(which corresponds to file offset \fIblock\fP*\fIblock_size\fP)
and updates
.I buffer
which must be large enough for the data requested.  The
.BR ddb_device_write
is the opposite, writing data from the
.I buffer
to the device. The \fIflags\fP argument controls what data the functions
actually reads, and is one of:
.TP 0.5i
DDB_READ_BLOCK
Read a a full block
.TP 0.5i
DDB_READ_CHECKSUM
Returns just a checksum of the block's data in \fIbuffer\fP
.PP
Moreover, the following can be bitwise OR-ed into \fIflags\fP
.TP 0.5i
DDB_READ_ZEROFILL
If there is a short read, fill the remaining buffer with zeroes
instead of returning an error
.TP 0.5i
DDB_READ_MAYBE
The caller pre-fills the buffers with checksums of the data,
and the device will compare it with the checksum of its own
data; if they are equal, the result is not returned but instead
the \fIresult\fP fiels will contain a negative number;
this flag is ignored if it is not useful, for example for
devices which do not need to send data over the network.
.PP
.LP
The
.BR ddb_device_read_multi()
and
.BR ddb_device_write_multi()
functions correspond to a sequence of
.I nblocks
calls to
.BR ddb_device_read()
and
.BR ddb_device_write()
respectively, using information in the
.I blocks
argument, which is an array of structures:
.LP
.nf
typedef struct ddb_block_s {
    off_t         block;
    int           result;
    int           error;
    void          * buffer;
} ddb_block_t;
.fi
.LP
The \fIblock\fP and \fIbuffer\fP fields correspond to the arguments of the
same name to the
.BR ddb_device_read()
and
.BR ddb_device_write()
functions; the \fIresult\fP field will be set by the function to a
positive value if the operation succeeded, and to a negative value
if it failed, in which case the \fIerror\fP field will also be set to
the appropriate code. For some types of devices, particularly remote
devices, these functions can be more efficient than a sequence of calls.
For
.BR ddb_device_read_multi(),
if \fIflags\fP included \fIDDB_READ_MAYBE\fP and a block was skipped
because of that, the \fIresult\fP will be set to 0 and the buffer will
not be updated.
.LP
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
The "single block" functions,
.BR ddb_device_read()
and
.BR ddb_device_write()
return 0 and -1 on failure, in which case they set
.I errno
to an approppriate value. If \fIflags\fP included \fIDDB_READ_MAYBE\fP
for
.BR ddb_device_read()
and the read was skipped because the checksum matched, this function
will return 1 without updating the buffer.
.LP
The "multiple block" functions,
.BR ddb_device_read_multi()
and
.BR ddb_device_write_multi(),
return the number of blocks successuflly read or written, which can be
any number between 0 and
.I nblocks
and additionally set the
.I result
field of each element of the
.I blocks
array to indicate success of each single read or write; and in
case of failure also set the
.I error
field to the \fIerrno\fP code resulting from each block operation.
.SH ERRORS
These functions can return any of the errors produced by
.BR read(2)
or
.BR write(2)
as well as other errors produced by functions like
.BR send(2)
or
.BR recv(2)
for some types of devices.
.LP
.SH NOTES
The last block in a file is handled differently if the file's size is not
an exact multiple of the \fIblock_size\fP.  Read operations will use the
amount of data actually present and fill the remaining with zeroes (this
is like specifying \fBDDB_READ_ZEROFILL\fP in \fIflags\fP but only for
the special case when the amount read is the size of the last block);
write operations will write a shorter block to avoid extending
the file (or writing past the end of a block device).  This special handling
is normally unnecessary for block devices and images but could happen when
using a regular file with no special structure.
.LP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ddb (1),
.BR ddb-intro (3),
.BR ddb_device_open (3)
.SH BUGS
None that we know of. If we do become aware of a bug, we'll work
to fix it.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2018 Claudio Calvelli <ddb@gladserv.com>
.LP
All rights reserved.
.LP
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
are met:
.TP 0.5i
1.
Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.TP 0.5i
2.
Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.TP 0.5i
3.
If the program is modified in any way, a line must be added to the
above copyright notice to state that such modification has occurred.
.LP
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND
ANY EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS
BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF
THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
